thin(1) -- high performance Ruby server
=======================================

## SYNOPSIS

`thin` [options] [<config.ru>]<br>
`thin` `-c` <thin.conf.rb> [<config.ru>]

## DESCRIPTION

Thin is a high performance Ruby server. Thin is generally used as an app server for serving [Rack applications](http://rack.rubyforge.org/doc/SPEC.html) behind full blown HTTP servers such as [nginx](http://nginx.org).

Since version 2, Thin can serve any protocol defined with EventMachine.

## FILES

The `thin` command will load the Rack application defined in a rackup config file. The default behaviour is to look for a file named `config.ru` that lives at the root of the application if the argument is omitted. This file is evaluated in the context of a [Rack::Builder](http://rack.rubyforge.org/doc/Rack/Builder.html) class.

The `thin` command can also take a server configuration file with the `-c` option. See thin-conf(5) for the format of this file.

## OPTIONS

These options control the Ruby environment and are the same as the `ruby` and `rackup` commands.

  * `-e`, `--eval` <LINE>:
    Evaluate a LINE of Ruby code.

  * `-d`, `--debug`:
    Set debugging flags (set $DEBUG to true). This is also output the request and response to stdout.

  * `-w`, `--warn`:
    Turn warnings on for your script.

  * `-I`, `--include` <PATH>:
    Add a path to the $LOAD_PATH. May be used more than once.

  * `-r`, `--require` <LIBRARY>:
    Require the library, before executing your script. May be used more than once.

These options control the Thin server.

  * `-o`, `--host` <HOST>:
    Bind to HOST. Leave blank to bind to any address. Use *[...]* to specify IPv6 addresses.

  * `-p`, `--PORT` <PORT>:
    Bind to PORT.

  * `-E`, `--env` <ENVIRONMENT>:
    Use the Rack ENVIRONMENT.
    
    *deployment*:
      will load the *ContentLength*, *Chunked* and *CommonLogger* middlewares.<br>
    *development*:
      will load the sames middlewares as *deployment* with the addition of *ShowExceptions* and *Lint*.
    
    Any other environment will not load any middleware. This option will also set the *RACK_ENV* environment variable.

  * `-D`, `--daemonize`:
    Run daemonized in the background.

  * `-P`, `--pid` <FILE>:
    File to store the process ID in.

  * `-l`, `--log` <FILE>:
    File to redirect stdout and stderr to.

  * `-c`, `--config` <FILE>:
    Configure the Thin server by evaling this configuration file. See thin-conf(5) for the format of that file.

## SIGNALS

Thin master process can handle the following signals.

  * `WINCH`:
    Gracefully kill all workers but keep master alive

  * `TTIN`:
    Increase number of workers

  * `TTOU`:
    Decrease number of workers

  * `QUIT`:
    Kill workers and master in a graceful way

  * `TERM`, `INT`:
    Kill workers and master immediately

## MODES

By default Thin is a preforking server like Nginx and Unicorn. On systems where fork(2) is not supported, Thin will fallback to running in a single process. While running in this mode, a number of features are not supported.

Here is the list of features that do **NOT** work when running in single process mode.

  * Signals, except `TERM` and `INT`.
  * Run daemonized in the background (`-D` option).
  * Log file (`-l` option).

Single process mode can also be forced by setting the number of worker processes to *0*.

## COPYRIGHT

Thin is Copyright (C) 2011 Marc-Andre Cournoyer <http://macournoyer.com/>

## SEE ALSO

thin-conf(5), [Rack spec](http://rack.rubyforge.org/doc/SPEC.html)